API Review: AllowDrop.md (#1523)
MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback: specs/APIReview_AllowExternalDrop.md

# Background

> Currently the functionality of dragging and dropping external objects(e.g. files, hyperlinks) into webview2 is default enabled in webview2 and there is no way to disable it. Some developers may want to disbale this functionality in their applications based upon their scenarios. According to such feature requirements, we add the new API to provide developers with the capability to configure the external drag&drop functionality.

Reviewer: The text here still requires editing/wordsmithing for spelling/smoothness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently the functionality of dragging and dropping external objects (e.g. files, hyperlinks) into webview2 is by default enabled in webview2 and there is no way to disable it. Some developers may want to disable this functionality in their applications. To allow for this, we add the new API to provide developers with the capability to disable the external drag & drop functionality.
```

Author: Thanks @david-risney, changed to proposed text.

# Description
We add a new `AllowExternalDrop` property in `CoreWebView2Controller`. 
This API allows end developers to toggle the external drag&drop functionality easily.

> If it's disabled, drag&drop objects from outside into current webview2 will be forbidden.

Reviewer: "from outside" is too vague (outside what? the current process?). "from outside the WebView" would be clearer.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
If it's disabled, dragging objects from outside the bounds of the CoreWebView2Controller and dropping into the CoreWebView2Controller will be disallowed.
```

Author: changed to `If it's disabled, dragging objects from outside the bounds of the WebView and dropping into the WebView will be disallowed`

To be more specific, some behaviors listed below will be impacted by the toggle of this property.

* Drag&Drop files on disk to webview2  
* Drag&Drop hyperlinks from browser to webview2
* Drag&Drop hyperlinks from one webview2 to another webview2

Some behaviors are not impacted by the toggle of this property like drag&drop selected text to webview2. That means toggle of this property has no impact on the expected behavior of this action.

By default, AllowExternalDrop is enabled to keep consistent with the behavior we had before the API is added.

Please note that drag&drop anything from webview2 to external(outside current webview2) will not be impacted by this property.

# Examples
## C++

```cpp
wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2Controller4> m_controller4;

> void ToggleAllowDrop()

Reviewer: These samples don't really demonstrate anything related to the drag/drop functionality. You could search/replace "AllowDrop" with "DoTheHokeyPokey" and it still would be a sample.

I expect something more like
```cpp
// This hypothetical app allows dropping external content
// only on the AttachReceipts page.
HRESULT OnNavigationStarting(ICoreWebView2* sender, ICoreWebView2NavigationStartingEventArgs* args)
{
    // Disable external drop while navigating.
    if (auto controller4 = m_controller.try_query<ICoreWebView2Controller4>(); controller4)
    {
        CHECK_FAILURE(controller4->put_AllowExternalDrop(FALSE));
    }
    // Decide whether to enable external drop when we finish navigating.
    wil::unique_cotaskmem_string uri;
    CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Uri(&uri));
    m_allowExternalDropOnNavigationComplete =  (uri_equal(uri.get(), L"myapp://AttachReceipts.html"));
}

HRESULT OnNavigationCompleted(ICoreWebView2* sender, ICoreWebView2NavigationCompletedEventArgs* args)
{
    if (auto controller4 = m_controller.try_query<ICoreWebView2Controller4>(); controller4)
    {
        CHECK_FAILURE(controller4->put_AllowExternalDrop(m_allowExternalDropOnNavigationComplete));
    }
}
```

Reviewer 2: I was imagining this was a property you'd mostly set once for a WebView2 and so didn't have an interesting idea for a sample, but I like this sample.

Reviewer: This does raise the question is when changes to the property take effect.

1. Immediately.
2. At the next navigation.
3. At the creation of a WebView from the controller.

My proposed sample assumes 1.

If 3, then the drag/drop setting is not meaningfully settable once the WebView is created, so disabling it would have to be done before creating the webview.

If 2, then changing the setting at navigation start is too late. Not sure how to fix that.

Author: My implementation is #1. It will take effect immediately after users set the property, including set the property at the creation of WebView.

Author: Good suggestion about the sample. I changed them to the proposed ones which are more straightforward and friendly to demonstrate this API. Thanks @oldnewthing.

{
    if (m_controller4)
    {
        BOOL allowDrop;

>         CHECK_FAILURE(m_controller4->get_AllowDrop(&allowDrop));

Reviewer: AllowDrop needs to be updated to AllowExternalDrop throughout this sample.

Author: Thanks. All AllowDrop are replaced to AllowExternalDrop.

        if (allowDrop)
        {
            CHECK_FAILURE(m_controller4->put_AllowDrop(FALSE));
        }
        else
        {
            CHECK_FAILURE(m_controller4->put_AllowDrop(TRUE));
        }

>     }

Reviewer: For alignment with C#, this should be
```cpp
CHECK_FAILURE(controller4->put_AllowExternalDrop(!allowExternalDrop));
```
rather than an if/else.

Author: New sample will not have this logic

}
```

## C#
```c#
private CoreWebView2Controller controller
void ToggleAllowDrop(object target, ExecutedRoutedEventArgs e)
{

>     if (controller)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (controller != null)
```

Author: fixed

    {

>         controller.AllowDrop = !controller.AllowDrop;

Reviewer: Presumably?

```suggestion
        controller.AllowExternalDrop = !controller.AllowExternalDrop;
```

Author: fixed

    }
}
```

# Remarks
The `AllowDrop` property already exists in some controls of .net UI framework like WPF and WinForms. 
The .net control wrapper for webview2 natively inherits this property. 

> But actually it doesn't really take effect until this new API is added.

Reviewer: Not sure what this is trying to say. Is it saying that the C# implementation will hook up the WebView2.AllowDrop property to the controller's AllowExternalDrop property?

It looks like the WPF UIElement.AllowDrop property controls both internal and external drop, but this new property controls only external drop. Is it right to connect the two?

Reviewer 2: This text is saying that the UI framework WebView2 control classes (which sort of wrap the CoreWebView2Controller) have properties for disallowing drop inherited from the UI framework, but we previously haven't been able to have them work because there was nothing in CoreWebView2 or CoreWebView2Controller to do this.

If the UI framework's notion of allowing drop doesn't match the new property you're adding we should reconsider. Is the goal to implement the UI framework's allow drop property? If so, can we make your new CoreWebView2Controller.AllowDrop property work in the same way?

Author: I removed the text here since it looks kind of confusing in the API review doc. This API review doc should focus on the API itself rather than its wrapper. We can explain to customers when updating webview2 .NET controls. @oldnewthing for your question, I think WPF UIElement AllowDrop means allowing dragging and dropping object from outside the control into the control, I assume this should be external drop which means drop objects from external(outside control) to internal(inside control). I checked the docs for AllowDrop here https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.windows.uielement.allowdrop?view=net-5.0. But I didn't find any information about the internal drop. If I understand correctly, the AllowDrop property in WPF controls only means allowing drop objects from outside the control into the control. Feel free to correct me if I'm wrong.

Author: @oldnewthing @david-risney any insights about this comment?

# API Notes
See [API Details](#api-details) section below for API reference.

# API Details

## Win32 C++
```c#
// This is the ICoreWebView2Controller interface.
[uuid(320613e2-990f-4272-bf90-d243a4ff1b8a), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2Controller4 : ICoreWebView2Controller3 {
  /// Gets the `AllowDrop` property which is used to configure the capability
  /// that dropping files into webview2 is allowed or permitted.
  /// The default value is TRUE.
  ///
  /// \snippet SettingsComponent.cpp ToggleAllowDrop
  [propget] HRESULT AllowDrop([out, retval] BOOL* value);
  /// Sets the `AllowDrop` property which is used to configure the capability
  /// that dropping files into webview2 is allowed or permitted.
  [propput] HRESULT AllowDrop([in] BOOL value);
}
```

## .NET and WinRT
```c#
namespace Microsoft.Web.WebView2.Core
{
    public class CoreWebView2Controller
    {
        //
        // Summary:
        //     Gets or sets the WebView allow drop property.
        //
        // Remarks:
        //     The AllowDrop is to configure the capability that dropping files into webview2
        //     is allowed or permitted. The default value is true.

>         public bool AllowDrop { get; set; }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        public bool AllowExternalDrop { get; set; }
```

Author: fixed
